you know I had a vision of Heaven at one
point um it heaven was a place where
people were eternally
playing and it was a place where
everything was good but everyone was
playing to make it better yet so it was
a combination of what was really good
but that wasn't the end of it and maybe
that's because being itself is not good
enough you want becoming as well right
you don't want things to be static and
perfect you want them to be as good as
they can be but Dynamic so there's still
something to do and so you could play at
making things better and better and
that's that would be lovely if that was
true right if you could have what you
wanted if you really think it through
you might think well it would be lovely
if everyone could play a voluntary game
that everyone wanted to play that was
aimed at making things good but even
when they're good the aim was to make
them even better and then it would even
be better if when you were doing that it
was marked by a sense of what would you
say a profound sense of positive
engagement and the cessation of negative
emotion and one of the other things we
do know about play is that it's quite
disruptable by other motivational States
so it's not that easy for children to
play if they're hungry or tired or
anxious or upset or hurt if your
children are playing spontaneously it's
actually a Mark that what you've created
around them is a Walled Garden right the
walls protect them so there's not too
much chaos and uncertainty and the
garden is is this place where things can
flourish a playground is a wall Garden
in in any you know in any real sense
wall Garden Paradise paradesa means wall
Garden by the way it's a balance between
culture and nature or between structure
and possibility you could also think
about a wall Garden as a game because a
game isn't you can do anything you want
a game is here's some principles rules
you might say here's some principles by
which you can govern your behavior
within that set of principles here's
some play right some freedom to maneuver
not so much that you drown and no one
knows what they're doing just exactly
the right amount so that it's playful
that's how it looks and so back to treat
yourself like you are someone you're
responsible for helping well you want to
approach other people in the spirit of
play but I would
say even though you probably shouldn't
teach people to play with themselves so
to speak um it's the right attitude to
bring to bear on yourself too and that's
a hard thing to do you know like we tend
to think that most people if we're
cynical we think well people are rather
selfish they're self-centered they only
want what's good for themselves it's
like first of all that's actually not
true there are some people who will
routinely take advantage of other people
to get what they want in the moment but
that's pretty rare in its extreme forms
which would be psychopathy let's say in
its extreme forms it's never more than
about 3% of people and then around the
Psychopaths there might be another kind
of cloud of narcissists who
are inclining in the same direction but
haven't got quite so far and maybe you
could add
another 5% on that you know depending on
the severity but that's it's just not
the case for most people most people
have the reverse problem
they treat themselves worse than they
treat other people and why well why
would you do that
well you know maybe you treat other
people not so well because you think
they deserve it and why would you think
that well cuz you know things about them
aren't as good as they could be uh and
you know that they've made mistakes
they've they've walked off the pathway
they've done things they shouldn't have
done and so you don't treat them as well
as you might otherwise but then you know
that about yourself more than you know
that about anyone else right you have
privileged access if you want it and
even if you don't you sort of have
privileged access to the entire panoply
of sins that you're responsible for and
that's a lot you know and most people
bear a pretty damn heavy burden of
existential guilt and some of that isn't
warranted you know lots of times you see
people in the Freudian sense who have a
super ego that's yelling at them too
vociferously you know one of the things
you do in therapy for people who are
hyper conscientious to the point where
their own internal voice is a tyrant is
you try to moderate that and and so
people can call themselves out on their
misbehavior too much but even if you
don't do that generally you have quite a
lot of misbehavior and as a consequence
of that you're ashamed and uncertain
about your own value and so then you
don't think you really need deserve to
be treated very well and so then you
don't and one of the things you do as a
psychotherapist is well what a lot of
what I did for example people sometimes
would fall into a situation where they
were being terribly accused of some
misbehavior by maybe in a divorce case
or maybe at work and I would help them
mount a defense for themselves it's like
you know we have the presumption of
innocence right which is a complete
bloody miracle that presumption it's
it's such a miracle that that our legal
system actually starts from that
perspective because be so much easier
just to say you're accused of something
hell there's 20 million people in the
vicinity we don't need you maybe you're
guilty off with your head that's way
simpler than despite the fact that 40
people are coming after you with
accusations we have to assume you're
innocent God and it's very hard to do
that for yourself you know to mount a
defense and one of the things I used to
have my clients do if if they're in such
a situation is write out a defense it's
like treat yourself like you're innocent
just for the sake of argument we can
also do the same thing on the guilt
front you know maybe you should make a
case when you're in trouble about why
you're guilty as well as why you're
innocent to lay out the whole territory
but at least you should defend yourself
and then we might say also if you think
other people are worth taking care of if
you think
that if you think that other people have
value well they're individuals like you
and it doesn't seem all that plausible
that they could have value and that you
don't unless you're the worst person
around and you're probably not I mean
you're bad enough but on average you're
no worse than everybody else maybe in
your worst moments you know you managed
to climb to a new Pinnacle but generally
speaking you know other people are
carrying a fair weight to guilt around
on their shoulders too and so if anyone
has
value then you do so what would happen
if you treated yourself that way and
this is a dead serious question and it
isn't a matter of thought
[Music]